---
layout: post
date: 2017-09-19 20:36
permalink: /the-beginning.html
title: 'The Beginning'
logline: 'How does one find themselves in a refugee camp you ask?'
cover_image: 'the-beginning.jpg'
seoTITLE: 'The Beginning | A Displaced Story'
seoDESCRIPTION: 'How does one find themselves in a refugee camp you ask?'
---

# The Beginning

<div class="videoWRAPPER">
  <iframe width="100%" height="100%" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/V8eIOiWdNZs" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

**How does one find themselves in a refugee camp you ask?** Well, firstly, our host, Narina, is half Ukrainian/half Syrian, and has watched both of her homelands fall apart in recent years. And the rest of the crew - some combination of enlightened and jaded millennial filmmaker. Together we found ourselves sitting frustrated, watching civil wars unfold, trying to figure out what on earth we can possibly do about it from our hipster apartments. So naturally, we picked up our cameras and tried to untangle the hot political mess that was going on in the world, and find some kind of truth to tell in all of this. But that word, ‘truth’, we pretty quickly learned was impossible to define, much less capture. What we really realized, however, is that us trying to figure out who’s on who’s side, and where that bomb came from, and why those missiles were dropped, was not going to be _our_ way of talking about conflict. Over and over we kept finding that the only _real_, concrete truth in all of this were the stories of people who conflict affects. And that will always be the regular people trying to live regular lives. The cute waitress at your favourite bar, the guy who makes the best shawarmas at 4am, your college roommates, your best friend. No one could ever make their stories up. Because we’ve all seen the footage…thousands of regular people running from their burning houses, swimming through oceans, walking for months through the desert.

**Here we switched gears**, and decided to focus on the aftermath of war and the people it displaces; the sorrow, the immense loss, the desperation. And we thought this is it, this is our angle, people will watch our film and be moved by it; they will connect with someone on the opposite side of the world because what they’re going through is so unbelievably sad and inhumane…right? But, there was just one thing that wasn’t working. How many times have we all watched the news of these exact stories, and flipped the channel, or continued scrolling, or changed the topic in a conversation. Why is that? Maybe it’s because we’re all desensitized by now. Or maybe, it’s because we don’t actually connect to the person we see digging their kid out of rubble after an explosion, since most of us have never experienced anything remotely close. So how the hell do we make something that people haven’t seen a million times before, that actually connects?

**And then I (Narina) get a Skype call from my cousin in Syria**. It was her wedding day, and my entire family was there celebrating. It was also the same day that a car bomb had exploded 20 minutes outside of their village. Yet all I was getting were party pictures. I thought, why aren’t they in hiding? or mourning? or something sad? But then I thought, why should they be? That is everyday reality for them now. That’s their life. And that’s when it dawned on all of us. Human survival not only means escaping death. It also means trying to normalize your life when life is completely abnormal. To find _some_ kind of light or else the depression would be too much of a weight to handle.

**So this was going to be our new angle**. Figuring out how people do exactly that, continue living when everything around them is gone. This is when James, our cinematographer, and Narina put their packs on and rolled into the nearest refugee camp they could find - which was the Calais “Jungle” on the coast of France at the time - for some inspiration. The video above pretty well captures what camp is like on the outside..freaky and unwelcoming. Heavily armed cops, barbed wire, a slum.

From the moment we walked in, however, it was absolutely nothing like we expected. There was an entire thriving world inside that camp. There were bars, restaurants, casinos - a movie theater. People were getting their hair done in one tent, and smoking shisha in the one next door. Everyone was young, with more life and energy than we’ve seen in a long time. And we couldn’t believe that no one was telling these stories. So we decided that we will. And that’s how we got here.

**This brings us to the entire point of this long-winded intro**. Which is the point of view we’re taking to tackle one of the most covered stories of our generation. We want to show the light in the dark. How the displaced are some of the most intelligent, adaptable and resourceful people on the planet. To do this, we have to show the humanity, and make the series as intimate and immersive as possible, so everyone watching could actually _feel_ what everyday life looks like at a refugee camp.

**To conclude**: one thing we strongly want to get across with the show is that this ‘refugee crisis’, is not some kind of phenomena that has appeared in the last few years and will go away eventually. It is a massive, global movement of people that started a long time ago and will never stop, especially the more we become interconnected. So, we could either resist it, build walls and block borders, or embrace it; acknowledge that it’s part of all of our lives now, and see the opportunity and potential that it brings. Most of the guys we met were highly skilled and educated. We met physicists, engineers, computer scientists. But we also met people with incredible street skills; they could read a person from a mile away, they are slick salesmen and can speak 3-4 languages; they are master navigators and can make something amazing out of nothing because they see possibility and opportunity in everything. This is what we are so passionate to show the rest of the world.

Yes, there is extreme violence, police brutality, convoluted politics, insanely corrupted systems that gives rise to so much loss, desperation and wounded people, mentally and physically. All of that exists and is part of every single refugee’s life. But it is not the entire story. They will tell you that themselves. The other side of it is what we’re here to tell, because we believe that showing that feeling of incredible happiness in incredible sadness is extremely powerful. It’s a feeling that we’re still trying to understand but. It is the heart of this series and what we aim to chase all over the world to find.
